# CS340

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Creating reusable programs, such as the CRUD file that connected the database with the widgets, and scalable programs, like the Jupyter Notebook file, allows for less rigidity. Creating a program that can expand and continue to grow with added functionality without reworking the entire base code is simply good coding practice. This is the approach we took this term, and it is something I have been learning and practicing over my years here at SNHU. The first step I take in writing a program is ensuring I don't create a "dead-end" program. What I mean by this is not creating something that has a shelf life that will someday reach an end to its functionality. Now, all programs will, at one point, come to an end and need some reworking. But thinking about reusability and scalability, these can help create much more powerful code and, in turn, a better interface/program. 


How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I first read the instructions/description of the given project. From there, I like sketching a plan, whether creating a flow chart or simply some notes. From there, I try my hand at working out the code slowly, compiling regularly. When I reach a point where I think I have completed some of the required functionality, I test it. From here, I can compare the results to what was expected. This gives me a great sense of whether I'm on the right track. And creating programs this way, I can problem solve and work out any issues as they arise, source controlling the build rather than creating the whole program and then combing through it for errors. 

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer Scientists are problem solvers. They take everyday issues or questions and find solutions for them. A company like Grazioso wanted a way to organize a database of animals into something functional, easy to access, and easy to use, allowing them to "keep track" of their animals. A computer Scientist took the issue at hand, "Hard data," and found a way to make it more accessible. This same process has been replicated thousands of times in creating programs that are used daily. Many of these aren't simply programs of convenience but those of necessity, as in many programs that run and maintain medical equipment.

